Now that we have our
tracklist working on mobile,
now it's time to get it working for
our tablet and desktop.
What we would like to have happen here
is we are going to take the tracklist
which is currently located underneath the
audio player here on mobile devices and
we're going to move it to
the left of the album cover.
When clicked, the tracklist is
going to fly out to the left, and
the close button,
we're gonna take our button.
We remember we've toggled the name of
it from tracklist to close, that will
fly up to the top, and we will have a list
of tracks that will appear underneath.
And we'll style a scroll bars and
all of that kind of thing as well.
So my approach to this is as follows,
first of all,
we just wanna get the tracklist to show
up on the left side of the album cover.
It doesn't matter what it looks like,
we just wanna move it and
make sure that it works.
Then the next thing we're
gonna do is format the button.
So we need to make sure we turn it
on its side and maybe change it,
some of the colors, and so
forth associated with it.
We need to fix the formatting of the area
where the tracklist will appear.
We want it grow on click because
we're gonna have a narrow area for
the button before it's clicked,
we want it to have a larger area to
display the tracklist after it's clicked.
And then of course,
we need to add some fun stuff.
We need to add some animations and
some scroll bar style and
other kinds of things to give it
that last little bit of sizzle.
So let's start with that first problem,
which is how do we get the tracklist
to the left-hand side.
And that, as you've seen throughout this
course, always starts with the HTML.
So if you take a look at the HTML
here in our starting state,
you'll see that we have a div
with the class of main-grid.
Inside of that, it has two children,
it has a main with a class of cover,
that includes the cover art that you see
there, its icons and the audio player,
and it includes the tracklist which
is underneath the audio player.
All of that is inside of
the main-grid right now.
So it's actually really easy to move
that tracklist button from the bottom
over to the left-hand side.
Very, very straightforward to do.
Because all we have to do is
leverage those parents and
children in some kind of layout.
And we can do that with grid.
So inside of our CSS, let's scroll on down
here to the bottom of our tracklist layer,
and I'm going to add a media query,
at media,
min-width, 800 pixels.
Then I'm going to leverage
that main-grid class here, and
set that up with our grid-based layout.
So our main-grid will display grid
And I'm going to have
grid-template-columns,
l have two of those, one will be 100
pixels and one will be 500 pixels.
The album cover is 500 pixels wide.
The button column will be 100 pixels
wide actually don't want these to have
any flex associated with them.
Normally we'd use something like
an FR unit, or something flexible,
here I wanna have a very stiff kind of
layout because I have a very demanding
set of specs for
this particular part of this.
I'm gonna set my max width to 600 pixels.
Why 600 pixels?
Because that's 100 plus 500 makes 600.
We'll also have no gap, And
we'll have a margin of 0 auto to center
this particular element on the page.
When I make my display
window a little bit bigger,
you'll see that the tracklist
shows up there.
It's showing up in the 500 pixel area.
The cover is showing up in
the 100 pixel area of the grid.
And when I click on the tracklist,
it still works just fine.
Looks terrible, works just fine.
So let's swap these two so that
the tracklist is over on the left side.
We can do that pretty easily
just by saying our cover,
which is the main class of cover here, so
our .cover class is going
to have an order of 2.
And that will swap those two.
Immediately, it starts to look better.
Tracklist is still working.
When we click it, of course,
it's behind the album cover.
And it stretches all the way down
the page, which we don't want but
it's still at least in the right place,
so one step at a time.
The next thing to do is to
fix this tracklist itself.
So the tracklist is too
long as you can see,
we want that tracklist to be
only as high as the album cover.
So we can write a new style for that.
And we will say art, a class of tracklist,
in other words, our section there.
I'm going to give it a fixed
height of 500 pixels.
That matches the album cover so
that the tracklist and
the album are now the same height.
I'm going to say justify self and
we don't want any gap in between
the album cover and our tracklist,
so by pushing that, sell the tracklist,
sell over to the album cover,
and we make sure that they
are absolutely touching each other.
We can turn off any padding and
margin associated with that section
because once again we don't want
any gaps in between those two.
And then the last part here has
to do with the tracklist itself.
When I click the tracklist,
it shows up very happily.
There it is.
We can just scroll down the page and
read the whole thing.
But that's not the behavior that we want.
What we want to do is get
a scroll bar here, so
when we click the tracklist button,
we see that content, but
we also get a scroll bar
that appears automatically.
And we can do that with
the overflow property.
And I'm specifically gonna say overflow y,
auto.
So the value of auto says to the browser,
if the scroll bar is required, display it.
Otherwise, don't display it.
So when I click on tracklist now,
I wind up with a scroll bar, and
I can scroll very nicely
there within that area.
And we can apply some styling to that
scroll bar later to make it look a little
bit more attractive.
We're just getting the default styling
that comes with our web browser for
that scroll bar for the moment.
If I had said, over flow y of scroll,
Notice that you'll have a space for
scrollbar all the time, whether or
not it's required.
So by using auto,
it only shows up when it's needed.
Now as for the x direction,
I do not want that to show up ever.
So I'm going to say overflow-x and hidden.
And that means just cut off any extra
content that happens to show up in
the direction, and
it'll just turn that off completely.
So, fundamentally it's working,
it's ugly, but it's working, and
that was our first goal.
Get it on the left side, make sure that
it works because if it's not working,
there's no point in making it pretty.
The next thing to do is
to format this button.
So, in our comp here, we see that the
tracklist button is turned on its side,
and it shows up in the middle
of that tracklist area.
And when clicked, it should fly up
to the top of our tracklist and
show up there, where it says close.
So let's see if we can
make that happen as well.
I'm gonna start by,
Opening up in my HTML my button here.
And right now my button
has an ID of tracklist.
That ID is there specifically for
some JavaScript purposes we're using
it to swap the the text that's on
the button and we've actually used
it as a trigger to swap classes for
that table, from hidden to showing.
I'm gonna add to this now a class, and
I am gonna call it button-tracklist.
Why?
Because this button is gonna
have two states to it as well.
We're going to have its default display,
which is pretty much kind of
like it is right now, with a couple of
additions, like turning it on its side.
When clicked, we're going to use
JavaScript to swap a class again and
it'll turn into our closed
version of the button and
it will have completely different styling.
If we leave one as an ID and
one as a class,
we're going to have specificity
issues here dealing with this.
So what we wanna do is have
a class in both situations so
that these styles easily override each
other rather than relying on that ID.
All right, so
let's go down to our JavaScript And
if you scroll down to the bottom of our
JavaScript you'll find in our little
function here that is hiding and
revealing our tracklist.
So remember that first line there and
that JavaScript is when that add
that button with the ID of tracklist
is clicked, stuff is gonna happen.
We swap our table class
from hidden to showing.
We're also now going to do something else.
We can swap that new class
that we just created.
So we're gonna swap our
button-tracklist class.
And we're going to swap it for
a class called button-close.
So that will allow us to apply
some new styling to our close
button that isn't necessarily
present otherwise.
So let's head back into our CSS and
now let's style our button
in its two different states.
We're gonna style the tracklist
version of this, in other words,
the default unclick version of the button,
and then we will style the close button,
which is the clicked
version of this button.
So let's start with our button-tracklist.
This is of course, the version of
the button here in this state.
We're going to set this to
transform rotate, 90 degrees.
So that will turn it on its side
exactly as we wish for it to look.
And when we do that,
it will just turn right on the center
axis of the word tracklist.
So it's actually cut off there
off the top of that particular
section at the moment in time,
but don't worry, we will fix it.
We'll say display block,
we already said this and
earlier in the mobile
version of this button, but
I'll say it again just to make
the code a little bit easier to read.
We'll turn off any margin.
And padding associated with this button.
And then I'll override that, actually,
I'll say margin-top of 225 pixels.
And that will push that tracklist
down to roughly the center.
Remember that our album
cover is 500 pixels wide.
So 225 with the word tracklist
looked about right to me in
terms of being there in the center.
So now when we click this we get our
tracklist and our close button is
sitting right in the middle exactly
where our tracklist button was,
and it's turned sideways like this.
So what we want to have happen is,
we want our close button to turn back
around to where it was originally.
And we want it to go up to
the top of our tracklist.
So we can write a class to do that.
So, this is button-close.
After clicking, of course,
this is the class that's available.
We'll say transform.
Rotate 0 degrees.
So that will allow our close button to
rotate back to its original position.
And we can give it a little padding,
1ram 0 and
we'll set its position to sticky.
And we want that to be at the top.
So if you just turn it now, it is sticky.
It'll scroll up to the top here, actually
just continues to scroll off the page.
But if we say top, 0,
Then our close button will scroll up
to the top here and stay put, see that?
As we scroll this on by.
Okay?
So what's going on?
Why didn't that close button?
Why does it stay right here in the middle?
Why didn't it show up here
at the top if we said top 0?
Well, the answer is that
our button tracklist,
we have a margin top of 225 pixels.
And that's exactly what's happening here.
We have this margin.
Position, sticky says it's gonna get up
to the top and then it's gonna stay put.
And if that's an effect you like,
you can keep it.
But I want mine to go up
to the top immediately.
So we can turn off that margin.
So margin top of 0 will turn that off.
So when I click it, now my close button
shows up at the top of the list.
And then we can add some styling to this.
Because, of course, right now it's
transparent, it looks like our tracklist
is going underneath that close button,
which, in fact, it is.
Let's give that close button
a little bit more styling.
So let's say a background
color of var, cyan and
a color of var, black.
So we'll have a little bit of text there.
So now when I click on
the tracklist button,
it should show up here
with the styling in place.
All right, so why didn't that styling
work here on this close button?
See we called for
a background color of cyan we called for
a color of black, why is it still
displaying the way that it is?
Great question.
Well, if we scroll back on up
to our original styling here,
we originally used our ID to style this.
So way up here at the top of our layer,
we have an ID of tracklist
with a background color of transparent and
a color of magenta.
So what's happening is
a specificity problem,
we're having a class trying to override
an ID, and of course that doesn't work.
So one solution to this would be
to change our ID of tracklist.
We could change that
now to their new class.
So let's call it button-tracklist.
Our original styling is still safe here,
but now our closed styling will apply.
Looks like we need to fix
a hover state here too.
As you see when we roll over,
it looks like the text disappears.
That's because the text is set
to be cyan on hover by default.
So while we're here,
let's change our ID of
tracklist hover to button-tracklist:hover.
That will be fixed that
same particular problem.
There we go.
All right, so then when we scroll
back down into our media query and
we go to our close button now we can say,
button-close:hover, and we can say our
color, Can be whatever you want.
There are a lot of different colors we can
change our background color or something.
So maybe we say our background color
Goes to var magenta.
And our color goes to var white.
So now click our close button,
looks like that,
might be better with black,
maybe we want it lime instead.
Maybe something like that, so
you can continue to play around with it
until you find something that you like.